hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain unit impulse and unit step functions
these functions are very important in signal and system analysis
discrete time unit impulse is one of the simplest discrete time signals
unit impulse is also called unit sample
mathematical and graphical representations of the unit impulse function are given here
unit impulse function is one at time equals zero and it is zero at anywhere else
note that unit impulse is a very important signal because it can be used to construct any discrete time signal
another basic discrete time signal is discrete time unit step
mathematical and graphical representations of the unit step function are given here
unit impulse and unit step functions are closely related with each other
the relationship between these two functions is summarized here
for instance the discrete time unit impulse is the first difference of the discrete time unit step
also the discrete time unit step is the running sum of discrete time unit sample
we can write this equation in different forms by changing the variable of summation
the unit impulse sequence can also be used to sample the value of a signal at any time
continuous time unit step and unit impulse functions are defined in a similar way to their discrete time counterparts
the unit step impulse can be thought of as the first derivative of the continuous time unit step
the relationship between continuous time units step and unit impulse functions is summarized here
as I said before the unit step impulse can be thought of as the first derivative of the continuous time unit step
the continuous time unit step is the running integral of the unit sample
additionally the unit impulse can be used to sample the value of a signal at any time
in this video I have explained discrete time and continuous time unit impulse and unit step functions
let me know if you have any questions